ELASTIC BEANSTALK: It is used to run and manage the web-application

In this elastic beanstalk, we dont need to create infrastructure because elastic beanstalk itself creates infra to deploy the application.

1.  open ebs
2.  create application --> application name: abc 
Note: once we enter the application name automatically automatically Environment name will update in Environment name.
3. leave these domain as blank. we don’t need to enter anything here.
4.  platform --> python
5.  application code --> sample application
6.  presets --> single insatnce(free tier eligible)
7.  configure service access --> service access -->
    Here have to select create and use new service-role, so automatically a new role will gets created in IAM and it will attach to Elastic Beanstalk.
8.  In EC2 key-pair if you have any existing key pair you can select or you can leave it as blank.
9.  create a role and attach it to your EC2 
    In EC2 instance profile we have to create a IAM role with admin permissions and attach here.
    To do that take a duplicate session search for IAM in AWS account.
    IAM is used to provide full access to create infrastructure through elastic beanstalk.
10.  now go back to elastic beanstalk
11. here refresh on EC2 instance profile you will get your role and attach here and click on next.
12. select the default VPC.
13. select (Tick) on all availability zone
14. Keep this database as it is we don’t need to change any configurations here --> next
15. In this Instance we have to select General Purpose (SSD) as ROOT VOLUME (Boot device) and size should be min 10 GB. 
16. Select any security group that you have in your account.
NOTE: Don’t select default security group, because you cant see the output.
17. Capacity --> make it as default, we don’t need to change anything here
18. instance type --> t2.micro
19. monitoring --> select basic on Health Reporting.
20. managed platform updates --> Here deactivate the managed updates.
21. Enter your Email ID and click on next and then review all these options and click on create application.
    So the infrastructure will gets created here by elastic beanstalk and deploy the application on EC2 instance.

    Now open your email you will get a mail from AWS, there we have click on confirm subsciption.
    If you click on confirm subscription you will get notified by AWS on every change in application.

After 3-5 Minutes your infra will gets created and you can see the logs like this.
To access our Application we have click on domain --> click on this domain link we will get output.